---
title: "Evolution of an IDE"
date: 2020-04-11T13:21:30-04:00
draft: false
---

So we've been through the evolution of a workstation - but as a software
developer I have used many different tools for creating and working with source
code.

In the beginning.... there was notepad.  This was awful.  
  
I quickly moved on to [Crimson Editor](http://crimsoneditor.com/) - this was a
*huge* upgrade.  Syntax highlighting!  Searching! Tabs!  
  
Later I needed to write some VisualBasic (classic) and some .NET applications
so I used the associated IDEs from Microsoft -- they were ok.

Once I started mobile development I was forced to use XCode (decent) and
eclipse (awful).  
  
Soon after I discovered IntelliJ / jetbrains which seemed to be a perfect
solution for a consistent and powerful IDE across different languages.  At this
time I was going between java, php, javascript, html, css, ruby, python, c#,
obj-c, swift...  the list goes on an on of course.  A *big* moment was when I
installed the [ideavim](https://plugins.jetbrains.com/plugin/164-ideavim)
plugin - which gives you vim keybindings and other vim related functionality
right inside IntelliJ IDEs.  It was during this time I realized the power that
comes with learning how to do things "the vim way".  Starting with home-row
movement keys to powerful regex search/replace - vim really speeds up the
editing process.  
  
I used IntelliJ + ideavim for many years. During this time my workstations were
evolving and even my workflow was evolving (to be addressed in a future post)
and a part of that natural evolution was the question "why am I not just using
vim?  Can it not do everything IntelliJ does?" So one day I moved over to using
vim - cold-turkey -- and I have never gone back.  
  
Today I use [neovim](https://neovim.io/) -- with a few plugins. you can take a
look at my [vim config
here](https://github.com/chadkouse/dotfiles/blob/master/.vimrc.after) -- it's
also always evolving but is fairly stable lately. At the very least I have not
noticed any reduction in my productivity - perhaps some increase but also I'm
not wasting time and money trying to keep my software licensed and up-to-date.
Plus you can flex on your fellow devs, so there's that...

 I've been very happy with vim -- and I'm not sure what may lie ahead but I
 don't currently have any itch to switch.

